# Parallel Computing of PI using MPI and Monte Carlo Method
This code is an example of how to use MPI (Message Passing Interface) to perform a parallel computation of the value of PI using the Monte Carlo method. The Monte Carlo method is a statistical method that uses random sampling to approximate a mathematical value. In this case, we use it to approximate the value of PI.

The code generates random points within a square and counts the number of points that fall within a quarter of a circle inscribed within the square. By using the ratio of the number of points within the quarter of the circle to the total number of points generated, we can approximate the value of PI.

The code is written in C and uses the MPI library to handle inter-process communication. The MPI library allows the program to be run on multiple processes, which allows for a more efficient calculation of the value of PI.
## Execution
To run the code, you will need to have MPI installed on your system. 
[OpenMPI official website](https://www.open-mpi.org/)
Once you have MPI installed, you can use the following command to run the code:

```bash
$ mpirun -np <number of processes> ./pi_mpi
`
The code will output the calculated value of PI and the time taken to calculate it.
## Customization
You can adjust the number of points generated by changing the value of the num_points variable. Increasing the number of points will increase the accuracy of the calculation but will also increase the time taken to calculate the result.

You can also change the seed value for the random number generator by changing the argument passed to the srand() function. This will allow you to generate different sets of random points for each execution of the program.

## Conclusion
This code demonstrates how to use MPI to perform a parallel computation of the value of PI using the Monte Carlo method. It is a simple example that can be easily adapted to perform other parallel computations. The use of MPI allows you to take advantage of the power of multiple processors to perform large calculations more efficiently.


